---
title: Snapcraft sucks
categories:
  - linux
  - snap
---

## tl;dr

Don't use snap.

## Snap broke my filesystem

I few months ago I was unable to open discord on my laptop because the package
needed updated. Unfortunately, updating the package using `pacman` led to the
same problem since the version in Manjaro's repositories was also out of date.

I am ashamed to admit that I installed [snapd] and proceeded to run a `snap
install discord`.

Today I was successfully able to install discord using `pacman` and decided to
remove the version that I had installed using snap. I tried some series of
`snap remove discord`, `snap remove --purge discord` but was met with a series
of errors. So I tried the brute force way and issued a `sudo rm -rf ~/snap/`
which resulted in the following:

```sh
rm: cannot remove 'snap/discord/122/.config/discord/Cache/426b6c378616834c_0': Structure needs cleaning
rm: cannot remove 'snap/discord/122/.config/discord/Cache/edf3e64c37bbcba6_0': Bad message
...
...
...
...
```

After consulting the internet, I discovered that `Structure needs cleaning` is
a strong indication that your file system is corrupt. Yep, indeed, the file
system had been corrupted. I wasn't even able to do an `ls` in that directory
without the shell complaining.

I thought that perhaps the SSD was going bad since the computer was made in
2012. However, it turned out that repairing the disk was all that needed
to be done. The SSD is still kicking.

## Solution

Luckily, I still had my bootable USB lying around with the manjaro
installation, so I was able to boot into the machine and run `fsck` on the
unmounted root partition. To make things more difficult on myself, the hard
drive is encrypted with [LUKS], so I had to first "create a device mapper" for
the encrypted drive at `/dev/sda2`. Running `cryptsetup luksOpen /dev/sda2 foo`
and entering the password for the disk opened the device at `/dev/mapper/foo`.
Then I was able to run `fsck` on the opened device, `fsck
/dev/mapper/foo`, and repair the file system.

After booting back into the system, I was able to run `sudo rm -rf ~/snap` and
`sudo pacman -Rs snapd`. The moral of the story is that snaps a joke and you
should just use the package manager.

[snapd]: https://snapcraft.io/
[LUKS]: https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/dm-crypt/Device_encryption#Cryptsetup_usage
